## Chapter Three: Past 
*Lance* 

Morning, I had decided was just foul. Mindless and grueling; were other adjectives one could associate with it. Of course my new roomie didn’t share my predicament. Where Ben would have tossed and mumbled and unless someone specifically jabbed his ribs, wouldn’t emerge, Peter was an automaton. First alarm, covers rustle, second alarm beep, while other boy begin to groan awake he is already showered and shaving, remaining clean cut as he silently shrugs on his uniform, never of course uttering a word. It isn’t until we’re seated together awkwardly at the canteen does he bother a quiet “Morning”. 
One of the biggest shocks for new initiates in the morning is the absence of one key staple to life; coffee. The academies don’t believe in caffeine in it’s cadets so, rather than the deep bitter warm concoction of existence itself, they produce “wake up juice” highly nutritious smoothie, some mix of the primary colors, the juice is about as tasty as asphalt but once again, sir machine doesn’t even gag once, simply takes long pull one after another. 
Though he’s no longer a brand new, around us I can still feel the stares. In the rougher mornings it’s grating, where before I could fade into the monotonous routine, now suddenly there are questions, concerned looks, small jabs and pin pricks of awareness. And then there’s him. 
Granger. His eyes will occasionally scope our table, appraising some silent value. Sometimes he will meet my gaze with a withering glare. He’ll look at Peter briefly but then dance away focussing back onto his own crowded table. Though Granger isn’t the only one giving odd sparing glances across the canteen. 

When he assumes I am not paying mind or attention Peter, sneaks glances at the head table, of course again never bothers a word just fleeting looks. His expression gives nothing, no heat, nor even true cold indifference of someone choosing not to care, no Peter shows nothing utterly and unsettlingly, nothing. When he catches me noticing he gives an almost imperceptible shrug or shake of the head and goes back to eating his meal. He isn’t the only boy to eye Granger, no many pay the head boy plenty of attention, but it is Peter’s attention that is curious. Peter doesn’t lose focus, at least not in any conventional sense, it’s annoyingly impressive, he devotes all his thoughts onto a task or topic at hand, unless Granger arrives and then his concentration shatters. This afternoon in particular he’s unfocused and I can venture a guess as to why. 
It had been late, evening lights out had already been called the boys in cells around us were breathing deeply, bear snores some of them, the training routines had been brutal that afternoon and exhaustion hung us all like limp slugs so everyone was out. My own eyes were closed and my ears only just registered the faintest brush of mattress springs below me through the haze of unconsciousness. Quieter then I even thought was possible on the old rusted things, Peter was moving. He had stilled for a minute listening out and I willed my own breathing to slow waiting until he was satisfied and continued to move. He stilled for a long time I almost fear he knew I was awake but then with a small exhale Peter crept towards the door. I kept listening and didn’t dare turn to look, but I could just make out faint whispering, and on distinct voice: Granger. After a short bit later Peter returned and fell into sleep I soon followed but thoughts of the peculiar encounter stuck in my head.

I debated bringing it up the next morning, but realized I didn’t want to have to answer any of his questions which he had mercifully kept quiet beneath probing gazes so far, so I would do the same. And by now in the canteen Peter is utterly rigid, unlike his normal feline grace. The boys all around were a buzz, it was a sparring day but this time the head cadet would choose one opponent in front of everyone else. Usually it was deemed as a way to challenge the head boy if you felt particularly suicidal, Granger had done it to the previous head cadet and utterly overthrown the ranks, no boy since had been so bold. So instead the head boys generally choose their preferred victim unless there’s a volunteer. Before, Ben and I had always remained in the back watching carefully. He would always crack jokes or bet against himself for which boy would win. After the meal masses of shuffling feet filled the cramped halls as everyone moved towards the training yard and sparring ring. All the higher ranks already took up their general position, across the way I could see the twins gesturing closer, but as I steered towards them I felt a hand grasp my arm. Warm skin touched mine and I looked up into grey eyes. “Wait, this way” Peter murmured softly, and instead pulled closure towards the center. As to how he even knew where to go I wasn’t sure, but my roommate drew us into the nest of cawing and jostling boys. In a hushed wave the ring fell quiet as Granger stepped out, his imposing form for all to see, ceremoniously he stripped of the top of his uniform as was customary in a watched-spar. He circled once, scanning and waiting no doubt deliberating who to choose. Usually head ranks if not outwardly chosen take on one of the next higher ups denying any possible threats to their position, but Granger had remained cadet one for three unit cycles, through all of the three classes above us had graduated the academy; it was unlikely anyone was a feasible threat to him now. Slowly Granger stopped and faced the outer rim and only then did I notice he was watching me. The Pulsing roar of my heart echoed in my ears and my eyes widened, I was rank six, middle range utterly out of Granger’s sightline or should have been. My jaw clenched and anticipation, nerves and anger bubbled broiling deep in my chest. Granger opened his mouth to speak and in the last moment where all the circle held its breath, Granger’s eyes shifted to Peter and he uttered one low word. “You”. 

[previous](topfour-03.html)
[next](topfour-05.html)
