The city blinked from the rising sun and all the lights on the high-rises. The first time I came to the city, I was stunned at how different it was … now, it just seemed like a false glimmer above an ugliness that wasn’t so different from home. Hoards of city-goers traversed across the complete LED marked blocks, and I could feel their eyes watching as I skidded past them, weaving through thrums of busybodies. Among the light, the whispering hum of electric engines the bikes’ ancient fuel-combustion, drew total attention to how much I didn’t belong. When I first made the trek to see Gisella, I would feel their stares, molten-iron melding into my skin with each glittery person I seemed to pass. By now, I barely noticed, my eyes scanned over the crowd checking for patrol officers; while a technicality never enforced combustions engines were pronounced illegal four months ago, and I could be taken into ward, and while officials back home couldn’t give any less of a shit, air-headed city patrollers bored sitting on their hands would deem it a big score bringing in a dirty-outskirts girl smuggling in an illegal transport. I rolled my eyes and smirked, remembering the one close encounter I had had with the Central City Capital Patrol. CCCP’s were a nightmare. Their teeth were too bleached and straight, their hair too waxed back, and their egos unimaginably too large. 

Once verified that the coast was clear, I hustled down into the south part of the inner city until I came in front of the beautifully ornate “Ms. Gisella Antionette Adam’s Ballet and Dance Studio.” Through the reflective glass doors, I could just make out the outline of girls clucking around the entrance, clad in sparkling leotards and blush tutus. They resembled puffed peacocks from where I sat. Dismounting from the bike, I lead it over to the back wherein the corner she kept a single rack-stand and chain ready for my bike as usual. After securing my sole means of transportation, I headed in through the glass doors. As soon as my chaffed boots hit the black granite floors, the conversations filling the tall-ceilinged hall slowed to a halt. It didn’t matter how many days I came or how long I had been her protégé. Gisella’s ballerinas and dancers never seemed to truly adapt to my presence. More like the shadow among stars left better unnoticed, although eyeing all of the pruned little girls with their buns wrapped too tightly around their heads, being in the shadows suited me fine. The only one who didn’t seem to see me as any different was Gisella herself, who didn’t care for my difference in appearance, nor did she expect any less of me for it. She never accepted excuses, so I never gave her one. Passing the other students, I blocked out their whispers and motioned towards the hallway's end, where the eldest class lessons were held. While most days I trained with Gisella in private, I knew that she would require me to attend at least one of her classes to help teach on days I appeared to her marked black and blue. 

The first time she had pulled this, I thought it was meant to humiliate me as tears burned at the corner of my eyes. I had almost quit right there and then, but then she explained. 

“Although I still don’t approve and wish you would take me up on my offer to become a full-time instructor- I know you do what it takes to survive. You are resilient in a way none of my students here in their silken slippers will ever know. So I ask you to help me teach to show them just how beautiful that resilience you hold is, to show them while an outsider and battered and bruised, you shine and have the same right and in many cases more so, to be here.”

So from then on and not without much grumbling, I show up and help to exemplify what Gisella strives to show her beginners and her stars. Past the first set of doors, I face the opening lobby-area where on-lookers can wait for their dancers to finish, and I trudge towards the women’s locker room. Even the locker-room manages to be extraordinary, with immaculate white counters and benches, along with stream-lined hub lockers. Thankfully most of the pupils were already in practice, so I wouldn’t have to face anyone through afterward. I doubted I’d get as lucky. Silently I shrugged off my leather jacket and top and a few bandages I hasted to wrap around my tired arms to helo keep steady while riding. My thoughts drifted back to the match from the night before. I analyzed my stance. Checking over my movements and marking in my head where I made mistakes, a technique Gisella ingrained in my head from when I was small. And then my thoughts centered back to the strange man and little goosebumps rose along my arms. I shook off the memory and pulled on my tights, and my black form-fitting instructors uniform worked to cover me while allowing seamless movement. Gisella knew she would find me dead on the granite tile before she ever managed to stiff me in a tutu. After pulling my blond strands into the uniform tight bun, I crept out of the locker room into the mirrored practice room. 

Today's class was of twelve girls, all ballet dancers, a few years younger than me. While most of them remained focused on their reflections as Gisella voiced her commands, I received some curious glances. And as I drew closer, the Maestra came into view. Even with a bit of grey peaking at her temples, the woman was gorgeous and wild in her element. Unlike the instructors, she wore loose wraps of vibrant fabrics, and her hair, while pinned up, still remained reminiscent of a lions mane with its untamable curls. Gisella was a legend and a force upon the stage. It was even whispered that she had danced before the Council themselves, although I could never get her to confirm it. When her opal-eyes narrowed in on me, her face curled into a terse frown. So much for not drawing attention to myself. 

“Well then, nice of you to join us, Paris. Now, if you would be so kind, would you come up here and demonstrate the key elements to form?” 

Internally I groaned. She loved this. While the task itself seemed simple enough, Gisella loved to exemplify the key element to form through commanding me to go through some of the most complicated steps ever taught. Stepping past the line of ballerinas, I reached the front where I stood a few feet from my mentor and tormentor. Her eyes gleamed, and she smirked. Shit, this was gonna suck, 

“Please show these girls the elements to good form, through a wolf’s promise.” 

If I didn’t have an audience in front of my shoulders would have sagged. The wolf’s promise was only a nickname for a technique that in itself was more gymnastics than ballet and only once ever mastered by Gisella herself, and she lived to have me execute it before others. Nodding once, I drew my arms up, lifting my body on my toes, and spun in a tight circle before branching off, twirling my limbs, and finally landing back on one foot with my leg extended up towards my head. My balance was iffy, and I only made it most of the way through the turn, but I still took in the students' astounded faces before me. Even if I didn’t want to admit it, a small balloon of pride inflated in my chest. Many of her students and other dance instructors didn’t understand and even protested the great dance legend taking a back-district outsider as her protégé, so on occasion, it was nice to finally show the world what she saw in me. 

Gisella humphed, but even behind it, I could spot the small hidden smile of approval even as she analyzed each of my mistakes in front of the group. After a few more uneventful hours, the students shuffled out of the studio back to the lockers to leave a sweat covered every inch of me. After the very last lingering student left, Gisella turned around to face me. Shrewd eyes picked up on every minor cut and mark. 

“ I would offer to train with you today, but it seems you already managed to get quite a good amount of practice on your own last night.” 

Disapproval stained her tone, and although I never told her where I got the marks from and she never asked, Gisella also wasn’t an idiot. I bit into the side of my cheek to stop myself from staring at the floor in shame. 
“Sorry” 
After remaining strong for a minute longer, my mentor sighed, and her robust and broad posture curved inward, relaxing. A gentle, delicate hand that would deceive into matching with a young woman rather than a seasoned Maestra patted my shoulder. 

“Go home and get some rest Paris, actually take care of that poor body of yours that you so love to abuse. Even though you were late and a bit sloppy-”  she smirked, and a smile lifted at the corner of my mouth- “you did well today. Say hello to your mum for me.” 
“I will. Thank you, Gisella. I will see you soon.”

With a final warm smile, she pushed me towards the lockers and turned back towards the mirrors, going into her own world, as her body suddenly seemed to become liquid as she moved through her own routines. I walked back into the locker room slowly. Moving towards the showers and rolling my now stiffened shoulders. Steam wafted into my nose and cleared my senses as the blistering stream hit my sore muscles, and an almost moan seeped from my lips. Gisella may have had a point between my fights and the practice. Everything in me felt sore to the bone. I let the water wash over me for a while and listened to the puddle draining beneath my feet. My eyes closed, and again I was back in the ring. The echoing roar of the crowd rung in my ears until I finally motioned at the shower handle to shut off and redressed, readying for the long trek home. 

With most of the streets emptied by the time I left the studio and the sun long having since set, my ride back to the outskirts and back districts was short. My eyelids drooped, and it took enormous amounts of focus to keep them open long enough to reach home. The neighborhood was quiet, and for some reason, the stillness caused the hairs on my neck and arms to rise. Something wasn’t quite right. I tried to ignore the queasy feeling in the pit of my stomach as I hurried to lock up my bike and head inside. 

Mum sat by the kitchen counter, and relief hit me in the center of my chest when I spotted her. 
“Paris, you’re back. We, we need to talk” 
Her voice was quiet and unsure, and I knew immediately what she wanted to say. She was going to try to bring up the fights again. This would happen in cycles where she would eventually wrack up the nerve, but nothing ever came of it. 

“Not now, Mum, I’m too tired. We can talk in the morning.” 
“No, Pae, we’re going to talk about this right-“ 
“I said, Not Now.” 
I was turning away from her as she raised her voice in retort whenBOOM thunder-clapped except it was too close to deafening. Whipping around, I stared at Mum sitting in her wheelchair, mouth open with no sound emerging as the world slowed and a blotch of red began to form on the front of her chest beneath her shirt. 

“Mum?” My whisper broke as I rushed forward, and her body slumped. 

“Paris” 

The corner of her mouth began to drip blood, and the crimson on her shirt blossomed. Her eyes met mine before taking one more shaky breath in her frail body and then stilling in my arms. Tears must have been falling down my cheeks, but I didn’t feel them. Something shattered inside my chest as I looked down into her blank ashen face. 

Suddenly, through the door flooded soldiers in black uniforms I didn’t recognize. They weren’t local officials. They weren’t even military based on their weapons and the unknown emblems on the corner of their chests. Black shield masks obscured their faces, and they rushed forward a pack of wolfs thrusting onto downed prey. Strong arms ripped me away from Mum and a scream detonated in my throat. I wiggled and struggled, but my tired limbs felt like they were encased in steel. 

Manacles were abruptly placed on my wrists behind my back, chaffing into my skin and causing the tips of my fingers to go numb. I kicked and flailed, but they held firm, and then with a quick sharp prick, I felt a needle being injected into my neck. Pain laced behind my eyes, and colors began to swirl and mash together. My body felt leaden, and my lips managed to curl around one final utterance before darkness came, 

“Mum.”

[previous](topfour-02.html)
[next](topfour-04.html)